Understanding Javascript at a low level content (#51)
cybertec-postgresql/today-i-learned-content: posts/TEMPLATE/index.md

---
date: 2030-12-31 # Auto updates on publish.
title: Understanding Javascript at a low level
author: agustin.ramirez@cybertec.at

> tags: ["javascript", "low-level", "parser", "abstract-syntax-tree"] # max. 10 tags; lowercase; dash-separated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags: ["javascript", "low-level", "parser", "abstract-syntax-tree", "ast"] # max. 10 tags; lowercase; dash-separated
```

> description: "What happen when arrives a script at the Navigator? Well all of this we will talk on this post :)" # max. 300 chars.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "How does Javascript work under the hood? Let's find out!" # max. 300 chars.
```

---

> You never asked yourself how Javascripts does the magic? This is very important, understand how it works the language that we are using in developing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Did you ever ask yourself how Javascript works under the hood? 
It's important to understand how the language we're working with works on a lower level.
```

> ## How does a Javascript engine? Well...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Top level view of the Javascript engine
```

> - Receives source code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Receive source code
```

- Parse the code and produce an Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)

> - This is compiled to bytecode and run it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Interpret as byte code and execute it
```

> - Optimize for a machine code and replace the source code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The profiler checks for optimisations at run-time
- The compiler creates optimized code and replaces it with the byte code
```

![Javascript Engine](./JSEngine.png)

> ## What does the parser?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What does the parser do?
```

![Parser](./Parser.png)

> A parser will catch a source code and read. But that you are writing or wrote you isn't that computer understand, first have to decompose. The parser decompose in a piece of code that is called `tokens`. Tokens identify `let` as keyword and `new` as keyword too. Plus sign `+` is an operator then the words that is on the side of it are numbers or perhaps are variables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A parser takes the source code and creates an AST.
First, the parser splits the source code into tokens. There are different kinds of tokens, e.g. `let` and `new` are *keywords*, while `+` is an *operator*.
```

> When we have that tokens, the process goes to AST. But what happens if the parser is analyzing the source code and appear something that doesn't recognize. Well then, throw an `SyntaxError`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tokens are then used to build the AST.
If something unexpected is found, a `SyntaxError` is thrown.
```

> > A `SyntaxError` it's thrown when the Javascript engine finds a piece of codes that don't belong to language syntax, at the moment of code analyze.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> A [`SyntaxError`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SyntaxError) is thrown when the Javascript engine finds a piece of codes that don't belong to the language syntax.
```

> [https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SyntaxError](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/SyntaxError)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Google says

- Parse it's 15-20% of the execution process.
- All scripts that are on the page never execute.

> - This does that the bundling and code splitting is very importants.

Reviewer: Remove this block.

## V8 Parser

### Eager Parsing

- Found syntax errors
- Create the AST
- Scope builds

### Lazy Parsing

- Double fast than eager parser
- Doesn't create the AST

> - Partial scope builds

Reviewer: Delete this block.

> ## Demo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example
```

> In this page we will se how show us all tokens of a declaration. [Tokens | Demo](https://esprima.org/demo/parse.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's try out the parser (using [this](https://esprima.org/demo/parse.html) website).
```

> ### Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```bash
> var answer = 6 * 7;
```

```javascript
[
    {
        "type": "Keyword",
        "value": "var"
    },
    {
        "type": "Identifier",
        "value": "answer"
    },
    {
        "type": "Punctuator",
        "value": "="
    },
    {
        "type": "Numeric",
        "value": "6"
    },
    {
        "type": "Punctuator",
        "value": "*"
    },
    {
        "type": "Numeric",
        "value": "7"
    },
    {
        "type": "Punctuator",
        "value": ";"
    }
]
```

## Abstract Syntax Tree (AST)

It's a graph (data structure) that represents a program.

> It's used on:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's used in:
```

- Javascript Engine
- Bundlers: Webpack, Rollup, Parcel
- Transpilers: Babel
- Linters: ESLint, Prettify
- Type Checkers: Typescript, Flow
- Syntax Highlighters

> You can check the tree that builds the AST here: [AST Explorer](https://astexplorer.net/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check the generated AST in the [AST Explorer](https://astexplorer.net/).
```

> Here I leave one example that we can play with AST to add an ESLint rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example on how to add an ESLint rule.
```

```javascript
export default function(context) {
  return {
    VariableDeclaration(node) {
    	// const variable type
     	if (node.kind === "const") {
        	const declaration = node.declarations[0];
          	
          	// make sure that the value it's a number
          	if (typeof declaration.init.value === "number") {
            	 if (declaration.id.name !== declaration.id.name.toUpperCase()) {
                   	context.report({
                      	node: declaration.id,

>                       	message: "The constant name should it in uppercase",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                      	message: "The constant name should be in uppercase",
```
